docs/literature.md, before:

# Literature

## SAFT

- C.-K. Liao et al.:  Optoacoustic imaging with synthetic aperture focusing and coherence weighting *Optics Letters* 2004, [10.1364/OL.29.002506][liao2004]
- Meng-Lin Li et al.: Improved in vivo photoacoustic microscopy based on a virtual-detector concept *Optica* 2006 [10.1364/OL.31.000474][li2006]
- Jake Turner et al.:  Improved optoacoustic microscopy through three-dimensional spatial impulse response synthetic aperture focusing technique, *Optica* 2014 [10.1364/OL.39.003390][turner2014]
- Jake Turner et al.: Universal weighted synthetic aperature focusing technique (W-SAFT) for scanning optoacoustic microscopy, *Optica* 2017 [10.1364/OPTICA.4.000770][turner2017]

## Iterative reconstruction

- Urs Hofmann et al.: Enhancing optoacoustic mesoscopy through calibration-based iterative reconstruction *Photoacoustics* 2022 [10.1016/j.pacs.2022.100405][hofmann2022]

## Ultrasound simulation

missing

## System descriptions

- Urs A. T. Hofmann et al.: Rapid functional optoacoustic micro-angiography in a burst mode *Optics Letters* 2020, [10.1364/OL.387630][hofmann2020]

## Applications

missing

[liao2004]: https://doi.org/10.1364/OL.29.002506
[li2006]: https://doi.org/10.1364/OL.31.000474
[turner2014]: https://doi.org/10.1364/OL.39.003390
[turner2017]: https://doi.org/10.1364/OPTICA.4.000770
[hofmann2020]: https://doi.org/10.1364/OL.387630
[hofmann2022]: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pacs.2022.100405

Commit message:

Adding a few more references for ultrasound simulation literature

docs/literature.md, after:

# Literature

## SAFT

- C.-K. Liao et al.:  Optoacoustic imaging with synthetic aperture focusing and coherence weighting *Optics Letters* 2004, [10.1364/OL.29.002506][liao2004]
- Meng-Lin Li et al.: Improved in vivo photoacoustic microscopy based on a virtual-detector concept *Optica* 2006 [10.1364/OL.31.000474][li2006]
- Jake Turner et al.:  Improved optoacoustic microscopy through three-dimensional spatial impulse response synthetic aperture focusing technique, *Optica* 2014 [10.1364/OL.39.003390][turner2014]
- Jake Turner et al.: Universal weighted synthetic aperature focusing technique (W-SAFT) for scanning optoacoustic microscopy, *Optica* 2017 [10.1364/OPTICA.4.000770][turner2017]

## Iterative reconstruction

- Urs Hofmann et al.: Enhancing optoacoustic mesoscopy through calibration-based iterative reconstruction *Photoacoustics* 2022 [10.1016/j.pacs.2022.100405][hofmann2022]

## Ultrasound simulation

- Emmanuel Bossy et al.: Effect of bone cortical thickness on velocity measurements using ultrasonic axial transmission: a 2D simulation study *Journal of the Acoustical Society of America* 2002 [10.1121/1.1480836][bossy2002]
- Emmanuel Bossy et al.: Three-dimensional simulations of ultrasonic axial transmission velocity measurement on cortical bone models *Journal of the Acoustical Society of America* 2004 [10.1121/1.1689960][bossy2004]
- Emmanuel Bossy et al.: Three-dimensional simulation of ultrasound propagation through trabecular bone structures measured by synchrotron microtomography *Physics in Medicine and Biology* 2005 [10.1121/1.1689960][bossy2005]
- Masaya Saeki et al.: FDTD simulation study of ultrasonic wave propagation in human radius model generated from 3D HR-pQCT images *Physics in Medicine* 2020 [10.1016/j.phmed.2020.100029][saeki2020]

## System descriptions

- Urs A. T. Hofmann et al.: Rapid functional optoacoustic micro-angiography in a burst mode *Optics Letters* 2020, [10.1364/OL.387630][hofmann2020]

## Applications

missing

[bossy2002]: https://doi.org/10.1121/1.1480836
[bossy2004]: https://doi.org/10.1121/1.1689960
[bossy2005]: https://doi.org/10.1121/1.1689960
[hofmann2020]: https://doi.org/10.1364/OL.387630
[hofmann2022]: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pacs.2022.100405
[liao2004]: https://doi.org/10.1364/OL.29.002506
[li2006]: https://doi.org/10.1364/OL.31.000474
[saeki2020]: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.phmed.2020.100029
[turner2014]: https://doi.org/10.1364/OL.39.003390
[turner2017]: https://doi.org/10.1364/OPTICA.4.000770
